Who are we?

Smarsh empowers its customers to manage risk and unleash intelligence in their digital communications. Our growing community of over 6500 organizations in regulated industries counts on Smarsh every day to help them spot compliance, legal or reputational risks in 80+ communication channels before those risks become regulatory fines or headlines. Relentless innovation has fueled our journey to consistent leadership recognition from analysts like Gartner and Forrester, and our sustained, aggressive growth has landed Smarsh in the annual Inc. 5000 list of fastest-growing American companies since 2008.

Summary

In this role you’ll be the primary point of contact for the technical/solutions portion(s) of an enterprise, B2B sales cycle. You’ll partner closely with the enterprise sales team, product teams, success management, and professional services on these pursuits. You will support a handful of account executives across multiple product lines.
How will you contribute?
Assist sales with discovery process to identify quantifiable problems our solutions can solve.
Demonstrate/Workshop/Solution how our products/platform can help our prospects/customers achieve their desired business outcomes.
Provide deep technical expertise in the sales process, thereby identifying and influencing requirements early in the process.
Have a deep technical understanding of Smarsh’s products and 3rd party integration; conduct technical presentations.
Influence and capture the prospect’s technical requirements, own the architecture blueprint and re-validate with the prospect.
Provide technical leadership during complex, enterprise-level Proofs of Concept engagements to meet the technical success criteria in a positive and professional manner that exceeds expectations and sets Smarsh apart from competitors.
Take the lead on the technical responses associated with an RFI/RFP/RFQ etc.
Prepare internal solution design proposals for complex deployments. Work with all departments to prepare for large and complex implementations, including knowledge transfer, integration design, and product gap analysis.
Keep informed on industry news and trends, products, services, competitors, relevant information about legacy, existing, and emerging technologies, and the latest product-line developments.
Regularly update systems of record (salesforce, SharePoint etc.) with presales notes/collateral etc.
Contribute best practices and content/collateral to broader presales and sales teams.
Travel as needed for internal/external meetings – Roughly 30 / 40%
What will you bring?
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Information Technology, Information Systems, Statistics, Mathematics, Business or equivalent experience.
5+ Experience in enterprise architecture, IT consulting, sales engineering or software engineering in an enterprise environment.
Professional demeanor with strong work ethic; self-starter; confident; creative and innovative with a passion for delivering technical benefits to sales prospects.
Understanding of Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning or Data Visualization.
Strong personal skills, able to build solid relationships with prospect’s senior business and technical teams.
Works collaboratively in a cross-functional environment with Smarsh’s product management, engineering and customer success teams, soliciting input when/as required.
Superb verbal and written communication skills, including the ability to gather, document and present the value of our solutions.
Adapt at overcoming prospect concerns and ensuring mutually beneficial outcomes from complex technology integration. Demonstrates credibility with prospects’ stakeholders on business and technical solution proposals.
Organization, prioritization and planning essential to concurrently deliver multiple projects.
Subject matter expert in the fields of Surveillance/Supervision, eDiscovery, Archiving, and/or unstructured data platforms is a plus.
Industry knowledge (Financial Services and other highly regulated industries).
Solution Selling, Demo2Win, and MEDDIC/MEDDPICC experience.
The above salary range represents Smarsh's good faith and reasonable estimate of the range of possible base compensation at the time of posting.

Any applicable bonus programs will be discussed during the recruiting process.

The salary for this role will be set based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to, internal equity, experience, education, location, specialty and training. Local cost of living assessments are done for each new hire at the time of offer.
Don't meet every requirement? Apply anyway! We value diverse candidates and encourage applications, even if you don't perfectly match the job description. Studies have shown that some strong candidates may self-select out of the interview process prematurely, at Smarsh we encourage an inclusive, high-performing environment.

About our culture

Smarsh hires lifelong learners with a passion for innovating with purpose, humility and humor. Collaboration is at the heart of everything we do. We work closely with the most popular communications platforms and the world’s leading cloud infrastructure platforms. We use the latest in AI/ML technology to help our customers break new ground at scale. We are a global organization that values diversity, and we believe that providing opportunities for everyone to be their authentic self is key to our success. Smarsh leadership, culture, and commitment to developing our people have all garnered Comparably.com Best Places to Work Awards. Come join us and find out what the best work of your career looks like.